1. Define each of the following terms:
a) Data
b) Field
c) Record
d) File

a) Data: data are raw facts, such as a telephone number, customer name, or
birth date. Unless they have been organised in some logical manner, data
have little meaning. A single character is the smallest piece of data that can
be recognised by a computer. It requires only 1 byte of computer storage.
b) Field: a field is a character or group of characters that have a specific
meaning. It is used to define and store data.
c) Record: a record is a logically connected set of one or more fields that
describes a person, place, or thing.
d) File: a file is a collection of related records.


2. What is a DBMS and what are its advantages?

● Better data sharing: by managing the database and controlling access to
data within it, the DBMS makes it possible for end-users to have more
efficient access to data that is better managed.
● Improved data integration: by facilitating a variety of end-users to access
data in a well-managed manner, the DBMS helps provide a clearer and
more integrated view of the organisation’s operations to the end-users.
● Minimised data inconsistency: data inconsistency occurs when different
versions of the same data appear in different places. A properly designed
database greatly reduces the probability of data inconsistency through data
normalisation, which reduces redundancy and increases data integrity.
● Improved data access: a query is a specific request for data manipulation
(e.g. to read or update the data) sent to the DBMS. The DBMS makes it
possible to produce quick answers to spur-of-the-moment queries.
● Improved decision making: better quality information (on which decisions
are made) is generated due to better managed data and improved data
access.
● Increased end-user productivity


3. Explain the difference between data and information.
Data are raw facts whereas information is the result of processing implemented on those data


4. What is metadata?
Metadata is the descriptions of the data characteristics


5. Given the file in the databases pdf, answer the following questions:
a) How many records does the file contain?
b) How many fields are there per record?

a) The file contains 5 records, 1 for the headers and 4 for the data
b) There are 5 fields per record